//
10 popular commands - daily use
cd ---------(change directory)
mkdir or dir ---------(make new directory)
rd -----------(remove directory)
ni <give name to item> ----------(create new file)
ri <item name> --------(remove file)
ls or dir --------(shows all directories and files in that directory)
cls --------(clear command line screen)
more <file name>  -------(read the file)














// Database
Database are data structure that stores information (mostly in form of tables )


//SQL Database
SQL(structured query language) we use SQL statement to operate on Database (operation like update delete get data etc from Database)

//NoSQL Database
NoSQL are Non-relational DMS. SQL are table based databases but NoSQL Databases can be key-value pairs,graph databases or document based databases.
It uses dynamic schema for unstructured data

//10 popular databases
MYSQL,
Postgres,
mongoDB,
Oracle,
MariaDB,
MS SQL,
AmazonRDS,
Redis,
Cassandra,
Elasticsearch


//ACID(Atomicity Consistency Isolation Durability)
It's a property of sql which ensure Data Integrity during a transaction.

ATOMICITY- it means either all the operation in a transaction take place or none should take place 
CONSISTENCY -means that if the transaction is successfully then it changes the databases or if there is some error during the transaction 
			 it will restore database before the transaction
ISOLATION -means every transaction is individual and can't access the result of other transaction until the transaction is completed
DURABILITY - means if the transaction is completed then it is updated to the database.then after if system fails then also data will safely in the database

//Aggregations
Data aggregation is any process in which information is gathered and expressed in a summary form, for purposes such as statistical analysis.
A common aggregation purpose is to get more information about particular groups based on specific variables such as age, profession, or income.
 
//Joins
INNER JOIN: Returns data that have matching values in both tables
LEFT JOIN: Returns all data from the left table, and the matched data from the right table
RIGHT JOIN: Returns all data from the right table, and the matched data from the left table
FULL JOIN: Returns all data when there is a match in either left or right table


//13:-CAP THEOREM
CAP Theorem is a concept that a distributed database system can only have 2 of the 3: Consistency, Availability and Partition Tolerance

//14:-Normalization
Normalization is a database design technique which organizes tables in a manner that reduces redundancy and dependency of data. 
It divides larger tables to smaller tables and links them using relationships. 

//15:-Database Sharding
Sharding involves breaking up one’s data into two or more smaller chunks, called logical shards
Sharding is a scale-out approach in which database tables are partitioned, and each partition is put on a separate RDBMS server. 
For MySQL, this means each node is its own separate MySQL RDBMS managing its own separate set of data partitions

//16:-7 network layers
Layer 1 - Physical.
Layer 2 - Data Link.
Layer 3 - Network.
Layer 4 - Transport.
Layer 5 - Session.
Layer 6 - Presentation.
Layer 7 - Application

//17:-Request Response Protocol
HTTP works as a request-response protocol between a client and server. 
Example: A client (browser) submits an HTTP request to the server; then the server returns a response to the client. 
The response contains status information about the request and may also contain the requested content.


//18:-Web API
A Web API is an application programming interface for either a web server or a web browser. It is a web development concept, usually limited to a web application's client-side ,
 and thus usually does not include web server or browser implementation details such as SAPIs or APIs unless publicly accessible by a remote web application. 

//19:-REST
Representational state transfer is a software architectural style that defines a set of constraints to be used for creating Web services.
Web services that conform to the REST architectural style, called RESTful Web services, provide interoperability between computer systems on the Internet.

//20:-HTTP Status Codes to Handle
200 (OK)
201 (Created)
202 (Accepted)
204 (No Content)
302 (Found)
304 (Not Modified)
400 (Bad Request)
401 (Unauthorized)
403 (Forbidden)
404 (Not Found)
500 (Internal Server Error)


//21:-HTML
Hypertext Markup Language is the standard markup language for documents designed to be displayed in a web browser. 
It can be assisted by technologies such as Cascading Style Sheets and scripting languages such as JavaScript


//22:-Box Model
the term "box model" is used when talking about design and layout. The CSS box model is essentially a box that wraps around every HTML element.
It consists of: margins, borders, padding, and the actual content.

//23:-Margin
The CSS margin properties are used to create space around elements, outside of any defined borders.
--properties
margin-top
margin-right
margin-bottom
margin-left
--units
auto
length - specifies a margin in px, pt, cm, etc.
% - specifies a margin in % of the width of the containing element

//24:-Padding
CSS padding properties are used to generate space around an element's content, inside of any defined borders
--properties
padding-top
padding-right
padding-bottom
padding-left
--units
length - specifies a padding in px, pt, cm, etc.
% - specifies a padding in % of the width of the containing elemen

//25:-CSS Selectors
CSS selectors are used to "find" (or select) the HTML elements you want to style

Simple selectors (select elements based on name, id, class)
Combinator selectors (select elements based on a specific relationship between them)
Pseudo-class selectors (select elements based on a certain state)
Pseudo-elements selectors (select and style a part of an element)
Attribute selectors (select elements based on an attribute or attribute value)


//26:-CSS Specificity
Think of specificity as a score/rank that determines which style declarations are ultimately applied to an element
Specificity Hierarchy  and points
1000--Inline styles
100 --IDs
10--Classes, attributes and pseudo-classes 
1 --Elements and pseudo-elements


//27:-Flexbox
four layout modes
Block, for sections in a webpage
Inline, for text
Table, for two-dimensional table data
Positioned, for explicit position of an element
The Flexible Box Layout Module, makes it easier to design flexible responsive layout structure without using float or positioning


//28:-Grid
The CSS Grid Layout Module offers a grid-based layout system, 
with rows and columns, making it easier to design web pages without having to use floats and positioning.
An HTML element becomes a grid container when its display property is set to grid or inline-grid.


//29:-Git
Git is a distributed version-control system for tracking changes in source code during software development. It is designed for coordinating work among programmers, 
but it can be used to track changes in any set of files. Its goals include speed, data integrity, and support for distributed, non-linear workflows


//30:-HTTP 
HTTP means HyperText Transfer Protocol. HTTP is the underlying protocol used by the World Wide Web and this protocol defines how messages are formatted and 
transmitted, and what actions Web servers and browsers should take in response to various commands


//31:-TCP
TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) is a standard that defines how to establish and maintain a network conversation through which application programs can exchange data. 
TCP works with the Internet Protocol (IP), which defines how computers send packets of data to each other

//32:-UDP
UDP (User Datagram Protocol) is an alternative communications protocol to Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) used primarily for establishing low-latency and 
loss-tolerating connections between applications on the internet

//33:-Web server
 web server is to store, process and deliver web pages to clients.
 
//34:-Static server
Static server is a simple http server to serve static resource files from a local directory and sends its hosted files "as-is" to your browser

// 35:-Application server(appserver)
an application server is a program that handles all application operations between users and an organization's backend business applications or databases


//36:-DNS server
A DNS server is a computer server that contains a database of public IP addresses and their associated hostnames, and in most cases serves to resolve, 
or translate, those names to IP addresses as requested.

//37:-Database Server
A database server is a server which uses a database application that provides database services to other computer programs or to computers


//38:-Standalone Application
A standalone application is one which does not have to be integrated with other applications to function.
example:-
Vlc media player
Adobe photoshop
Notepad++


//39:-MVC
Model–view–controller is a software design pattern commonly used for developing user interfaces which divides the related program logic into three interconnected elements. 
This is done to separate internal representations of information from the ways information is presented to and accepted from the user

//40:- Operating System
An Operating System (OS) is an interface between a computer user and computer hardware
it manages computer hardware, software resources, and provides common services for computer programs.

//41:-Kernel
A Kernel is the central part of an operating system. It manages the operations of the computer and the hardware - most notably memory and CPU time.

//42:-process
a process is the instance of a computer program that is being executed by one or many threads


//43:-Thread
A thread is the smallest unit of processing that can be performed in an OS. 
In most modern operating systems, a thread exists within a process - that is, a single process may contain multiple threads


//44:-SOLID
S-Single responsibility principle(A class should only have a single responsibility)
O-Open–closed principle(open for extension, but closed for modification)
L-Liskov substitution principle(Objects in a program should be replaceable with instances of their subtypes without altering the correctness of that program.)
I-Interface segregation principle(Many client-specific interfaces are better than one general-purpose interface)
D-Dependency inversion principle(One should "depend upon abstractions, [not] concretions)

//45:-Apache Web Server
Apache is an open-source and free web server software that powers around 46% of websites around the world
It allows website owners to serve content on the web

//46:-Nginx Web Server


//47:-Messaging Queue
Message queuing allows applications to communicate by sending messages to each other. 
The message queue provides temporary message storage when the destination program is busy or not connected.

//48:-enterprise service bus (ESB)
An enterprise service bus (ESB) is a middleware tool used to distribute work among connected components of an application. 
ESBs are designed to provide a uniform means of moving work, offering applications the ability to connect to the bus and subscribe to 
messages based on simple structural and business policy rules 

//49:-RabbitMQ
RabbitMQ is a general purpose messaging solution, often used to allow web servers to respond to requests quickly instead of being 
forced to perform resource-heavy procedures while the user waits for the result

//50:-Kafka
Apache Kafka is a distributed streaming platform capable of handling trillions of events a day. Kafka provides low-latency, high-throughput, 
fault-tolerant publish and subscribe pipelines and is able to process streams of events

